Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
the nested If - Else statement in C.
So nested if else statement can
be used, if you have more than 2 cases to
handle and this is the syntax for nested
If else statement and it will check each condition sequentially
and once the condition succeeds it goes to the corresponding
block and if none of them are true then the
else code part will work
here suppose the first condition is false
So the statements won't work and say second condition is
also false
So that block will also not work and say third
condition is true and this block will be executed now
suppose all the conditions here are false now first three
blocks will not be executed and the else part will
work. now see a program here which selects a grade
based on the score and we can use nested If-Else
statement since we have more than two options here and
we are declaring an integer variable score and we ask
the user to enter the score and it is stored
in the variable score. The objective of this programme
is if the score is more than 90 print S grade
And if the score is in between 80 and 90
print A grade. If it is in between 70 and 80 print B
grade. If it is between 60 and 70 print C grade.
If it is between 51 and 60 print D grade and if
the score is 50 print E grade and if it is below
50 then print U grade
Suppose user enters 65 it is stored to variable score.
And now we want to find the grade so first
we have if score is less than or equal to 100
and greater than or equal to 90
But the condition is false
So we check the next condition which is score less
than 90 and it is greater than or equal to
again it is false
So we go for the next condition
Score is less than 80 and it is greater than
or equal to 70 again
This is also not true
So leave that block and check the next one Here
we have score less than 70 which is true so
check if score is greater than or equal to 60
and that is also true so the AND here will
return TRUE
And this block will be executed and it will print
C and that's all
And next suppose user enters 150 and it will be
stored in variable score
And we have the nested
If else here. The first condition score is less than
or equal to 100 and greater than or equal to 90 is
wrong
second one is wrong. third and forth is also wrong
Next fifth condition it is also wrong
And remember when the condition is wrong, we skip that
block and now sixth and seventh is also wrong And
we have the else part.
So none of the condition is true Which means it
will execute the else block and it will print
"Enter a valid score between 0 and 100" and execution of the
programme is completed
And that is how we use nested
If else statement where we have more than two options
So that's all and thank you for watching this video